what's up guys my name is sear Adichie
were here for not episode of that
creative life I'm here with the amazing
designer Mike Montero
so Mike help show you Sarah
who are you where are you located and
what you do my name is Mike Montero I'm
a designer I'm here in North Beach San
Francisco I run a design shop called the
mule along with my partner alcohol we've
been doing this together for 16 years
now and yes but we do got a small shop
we got twelve people we do good work
Mike if you have one piece of advice
Krishna hop right into it to hop right
into it
any anyone who wants to be a designer or
anyone who wants to get in the creative
field as a living don't let people call
you a creative that's it that's that's a
hate word you're a designer it's a craft
right it's it's got you know certain
things that you need to do to be a
designer and I don't like getting you
know there's there's a tendency with
people who hire designers and
photographers and illustrators and
people like that to lump everybody into
one field and decide well we're just
going to label all these people
creatives and they'll just come in and
they'll do their magic act and they
don't really have to understand our
business needs they don't have to
understand our goals they don't have to
understand our audience because there's
just this thing that they do and
designers buy into that crap and I do
the kind of work that I do and we're
good at the kind of work that we do
because we do understand your business
needs we do understand your goals we do
talk to your audience this thing that we
do in about magic it's about research
it's about studying it's about analyzing
it's about asking questions it also
takes the takes this idea that
creativity is is just something that
belongs to this special group I want
creative people all over my my business
if I'm running a business I want my CEO
to be creative I want my marketing
people would be creative I want the
people who are writing code to be
creative I want the people who are you
know I want the people in accounting
be creative but not that kind of
creative I don't like that that
creativity is something that is
described as belonging to one group
that's stupid and this thing that I do
it's a thing that I learned it's a craft
and it's something that that I use to
benefit other people and it comes
through a lot of answering questions and
it comes it comes because of a lot of
listening and it comes because of a lot
of research it's not some that I
can you curse on this show great it's
not because of some that I
pull through the air and like get in Spa
inspiration is you know that she'll
close quote about inspiration
inspiration is for amateurs everybody
else goes to work I work for a living
that is amazing so what why does design
matter I mean you look out into the
world and it makes the world a better
place I believe like why does a design
matter so that person who maybe owns a
business and doesn't really think about
branding or anything well it's not the
design matters it's a good design
matters because everything out there is
designed you cannot not design something
so design is all around us and mostly
we're surrounded by bad design and
everything that we see like the fact
that the trains can't you know that Muni
trains can't run on time is because of
bad design the fact that you know it
takes you like half an hour to just even
get a number at the DMV is because of
bad design the fact that you know we
can't run an election properly is
because of bad design and all of these
things are situations where good design
can come in and and improve people's
lives and make a difference
so the problem the issue isn't that we
don't believe design matters is that we
be is that we're not willing to to take
the time to actually design something
well so I want to
talk a little bit about like school in
the context of just learning a craft and
what is the kind of difference you see
behind I'm going to school for something
and then getting out there and working
because you know sometimes you need a
balance of both what's kind of your
opinion on how you should act as a
student as a design student and how you
should act and getting out there and
doing it and working schools of schools
as good as you make it any experience
really is as good as you make it but
especially school I think design schools
for the most part have an incredibly
shitty curriculum they do not teach you
the things that you need to actually do
this job design schools will teach you
they'll teach you aesthetics they'll
teach you like the history of typography
they'll teach you you know color theory
hopefully and all of those things are
good all of those things are incredibly
important but they don't teach you
things like how to handle clients they
don't teach you how to read a client
email they don't teach you how to you
know get the right kind of feedback that
you need from somebody they don't teach
you they don't teach you basically they
don't teach you the stuff that you need
to stay alive in this profession they
don't teach you the things that you need
to actually make the money to pay back
those incredible student loans that
you're racking up being they're getting
a shitty education oh yeah and what is
the most valuable piece of thing in the
business sighs design that you
share with someone that they might not
learn have learned in college how to
read a client email how do pretty well
it's either that or how to present work
I've seen I've seen designers come out
of school and they have absolutely no
idea how to present their work to a
client which is it it's going to kill
you if you're trying to make a living
here and it's like the number one reason
why people fail in this business I've
seen people who do like amazing work
they do beautiful work they do work that
actually you know meets clients goals
and you know they get up in front of a
client and they start you know they have
to explain to them why this work is
actually the right work and they just
get up there and they freeze they don't
know how to make those points they don't
know how to convince somebody who's not
a designer why the thing they just made
is actually what they need you know they
might be able and and like the biggest
mistake I see with designers when they
present work is they start talking about
like typography they start talking
about you know color theory they start
talking about all the stuff that they
learned in school but they're not
selling it to other designers this is
not a critique situation this is
presenting work to for the most part
businesspeople or tech people and if you
don't know like what it takes to get
those people the people who aren't
versed in all of those things that you
learned in school to understand what why
this is the right thing if you can't
speak their language if you can't talk
to their business needs if you can't say
well our goal here was to increase
yada-yada by 30% quarter-over-quarter
and I believe that the choices that I've
made here will do that then you're not
going to have a very long career as a
designer and if you are paying if you
are paying like an institution to
teach you how to be a designer and an
institution is not teaching you that
then they have failed you they have
absolutely failed you designers are not
failing at schools schools are failing
at making good designers every design
school out there who doesn't teach
designers how to do this job is running
a criminal enterprise so talk about a
little bit about the space that you got
going on here so in the back that's
where all the all the work is gone down
where we were oh we got word so right
now we are in we're in mule gallery so
mule gallery exists because of the
peculiarities of San Francisco zoning
laws and this space here is zoned as a
retail space so we decided well let's
open up a gallery because it's nice
right
we got all these people who come in here
they have shows it changes out every
couple months we get to meet people we I
like looking at nice art when I walk
through the building this thing behind
me right here this is a Winston Smith
show that we have going on right now do
you know Winston Smith is Winston Smith
designed the Dead Kennedys logo - no the
Dead Kennedys are oh boy how old are you
so when you get when you went when
you're done here fire up your your your
Apple music or your Spotify or whatever
you use and look for the Dead Kennedys
and you'll see if they're there EP and
god we trust'
that's the cover of it right there yeah
outside of the design world advice just
be a better human or any life lessons
yeah don't work with jerks life is too
short to work with jerks so if you're
out there and you're starting your
career there's a thing that you do and
that thing that you do has value to
people and that thing that you do can
make the world a better place or it can
make the world a worse place and it's up
to you to choose which and it is a
choice which were those things you want
to be which of those things you want to
do and you don't have to work with
people who you don't want to work with
you don't have to work with people who
treat you badly you don't have to work
with people who don't value what you do
for them just walk out right now if
you're sitting there watching this and
you're thinking your boss is an
gather your up walk out go find a
better job you don't have too much time
to do the thing that you do on this
planet don't waste it working for jerks
and it was that thank you so much for
hanging out for that creative life
episode where working people find you
right here on this couch here okay like
what do you think is number one social
media that you want people out there to
go follow you on right oh it's gonna be
on Twitter it's it's at Montero he'll on
Twitter go follow on guys thank you so
much for hanging out with me Sarah it's
been a pleasure and chattin and I will
see you guys in the next video subscribe
for daily we've always liked creative
creative spaces TV and see the like son
thank you make good decisions
make good decisions
I just had a linear